Seat no. - BCO77D511
PRN no. - 71915777D
exam Laboratory Practice I

Types of Data

1. Nominal :- Categorical data (not numeric), has no scale and cannot be arranged, 
eg. Nationality, Gender

2. Ordinal :- Like categorical data eg. rate from (1 to 10)

3.Continuous
4. Binary
5. useless - eg. Bank account number. There's no relation, has high cardinality

Decomposition:
The process of splitting the computations in a problem into a set of
concurrent tasks is referred to as decomposition.

Types of decomposition techniques in parallel computing:

1. Recursion - Divide and conquer

2. Data decomposition - matrix multiplication

3. Exploratory decomposition -  puzzle problem

4. Speculatory decomposition - switch case


Implicit vs Explicit parallelism 

if you decompose your work into tasks and coordinate between them then it’s explicit parallelism because you are the one doing it.

On the other hand, if the system (the libraries, compiler, OS) is doing it for you then it’s implicit parallelism.



K-means clustering represents an unsupervised algorithm, mainly used for clustering, while KNN is a supervised learning algorithm used for classification



CUDA - Compute Unified Device Architecture
supports us by using shared memory, threads and sync

CPU(Cuda libraries, runtime, driver) or GPU


Linear regression and Logistic regression
- Relation between dependent and independent variable

Apriori algorithm 
- To find association between the items 
- We use the frequency of the itemset
- Support and Confidence
- min support and threshold confidence


K-means clustering 
- Eucledian distance
- calculate new centroid once you find the new element in a cluster

Decision tree
- Information Gain, Entropy and Gain = IG - E(element)
Skewed Probability Distribution (unsurprising): Low entropy
Balanced Probability Distribution (surprising): High entropy

Naive Bayes Classifier Algorithm 
- formula P(A|B) = P(B|A)*P(A)/P(B)


4 V's of Big data:
Volume
Velocity
Veracity
Variety


Data visualization techniques:
1. Data V (Table, Pie, charts, histogram)
2. Information V (Timeline, venn diagram, scatterplot)
3. Concept V (mindmap, decision tree)


Confusion Matrix
				Predicted
			NO		YES
	A			|
	c	NO	TN	|	FP
	t			|
	u	-------------------------------------
	a			|
	l	YES	FN	|	TP
				|

Accuracy = (TP + TN) / Total

Error rate = 1 - accuracy

Precision = TP / Predicted yes

Recall = TP / Actual yes

False Positive is also known as TYPE 1 error
False Negative is also known as TYPE 2 error

- Actual and Predicted values (difference between them)



Components of Expert systems(Domain specific):
- Knowledge base
- Inference Engine
- User Interface



Hadoop architecture:
- Distributed processing - MapReduce
- Distributed storage - HDFS
- YARN Framework - Job scheduling and resource management

MapReduce:
- Map() - breaks the data into tuples of key value and passes them to reduce
- Reduce() - gathers all the data according to the key and produces the output

HDFS: Data comes in blocks (64mb)
- Name Node - contains the meta data, also distributes them manages the resources
- Data Node - 









