BE Seat no. - BCO77D511

TE Seat no. - T150524278

 So can select on HR.COUNTRIES, HR.DEPARTMENTS, HR.EMPLOYEES, HR.JOB_HISTORY,
 HR.JOBS, HR.LOCATIONS, HR.REGIONS.


Compiler Design

1. Lexical Analysis
2. Parser
3. 
4. 
5. 

* Lexical Analysis : Lexer, Tokenizer, Scanner - we use DFA NFA to convert it to tokens
Identifiers are stored in the symbol table
1. Tokenization
identifier- stored by programmer, variable
seperator - brackets or punctuations
keyword - int main , if, while, etc
operators - < > + =
constants(literals) - numbers
special characters - 

2. give error messages

3. eliminate

* Parser:
first() & follow()


* Syntax Analysis : Parser - checks if it is organized syntactically: converts into parse tree

* Semantic Analysis : Check logical errors SDT(Syntax directory translation)

* Intermediate code generator: 3 address code : generates machine independent code



Questions:

1. Name system tools:
-> Compilers, assembler, interpreter, scheduler, loaders and linkers.

2. Realtime OS?
-> A real time operating system time interval to process and respond to inputs is very small.
Example military software system, space software system.


3. Process scheduling?
-> The allocation of computer's processor power to specific tasks.
1. Preemptive : Preemptive scheduling is used when a process switches from running state to 
ready state or from waiting state to ready state.
2. Non-preemptive Scheduling is used when a process terminates, or a process switches from running to waiting state.

4. Types of process scheduling?
->  First Come First Serve (FCFS), 2) Shortest-Job-First (SJF) Scheduling 3) Shortest Remaining Time 
    4) Priority Scheduling 5) Round Robin Scheduling 6) Multilevel Queue Scheduling

5. Types of OS?
-> Batch operating system, multitasking OS, multiprocessing OS, Real Time OS, Distributed OS, Mobile OS

6. Loader
-> In computer systems a loader is the part of an operating system that is responsible for loading programs and libraries.

7. Deadlock
-> Deadlock is a situation that occurs in OS when any process enters a waiting state because another waiting process 
is holding the demanded resource.

8. Explain 'Compile and Go' Loader
-> In this type of loader, the instruction is read line by line, its machine code is obtained and 
it is directly put in the main memory at some known address.

9. Linker
-> Linker is a program in a system which helps to link a object modules of program into a single object file. 
It performs the process of linking. Linker are also called link editors. Linking is process of collecting and 
maintaining piece of code and data into a single file.

10. Deadlock
-> Deadlock is a situation that occurs in OS when any process enters a waiting state because another waiting 
process is holding the demanded resource

11. FLEX and YACC
-> Fast Lexical analyzer generator, Yet another compiler compiler (provides a tool to produce parser)

12. 













